---
id: 43
title: LinkedIn
date: 2020-06-22T13:02:12+00:00
guid: https://www.serenadewind.com/posts/linkedin/
permalink: /posts/linkedin/
author: sw
layout: post
categories:
    - Relationships
tags:
    - cultureofcharacter
    - gowiththeflow
    - tedtalks
    - secondmountain
    - leanintovalues
    - powerofwhy
    - quietpower
    - tedtalks
share: true
image:
    thumbnail: /images/small/dhn-greece-silohuette-hike.jpg 
excerpt: If you tried to send me a Linkedin request over the past dozen years or so, chances are I didn't see it. Apologies if you think I was ignoring you. Please don't take it personally. I was ignoring Linkedin.
---
{% include toc %}

{% assign pwimg="dhn-profile-linkedin" %}
{% assign pwcaption="" %}
{% assign pwpng="" %}
{% include post-wide-image.html%}

# Linkedin

A few months ago, I updated my Linkedin profile. I had originally set up my profile over a dozen years ago and wrote nothing on it. Current employer and title - that's it. Andrew equates it to the equivalent of tumbleweeds. In large part, this was because I was happy where I was and didn't need to be bothered with having recruiters solicit me.

So while I was doing my rounds at the office saying my goodbyes, I decided to use Linkedin as a communication tool for the rest of my business contacts outside of Warner Bros. to let them know I had retired.

When it comes to Linkedin, my approach is to only accept connections with people I have worked with or went to school with. Basically, anyone I can readily vouch for in terms of abilities and competencies in a professional setting. Others seem to treat it as yet another social media platform to collect as many connections as they can.

I will probably go the other direction and cull individuals that I am really no longer in touch with, but I get ahead of myself.

{% assign pwimg="dhn-greece-silohuette-hike" %}
{% assign pwcaption="" %}
{% assign pwpng="" %}
{% include post-wide-image.html%}

# Adios

Over a weekend, I started to backfill content on my profile. I put all the impressive accomplishments from my resume on there and then (after a moment of reflection) got rid of all of it. I just put the names of the companies and the years of employment. I was done marketing my skills. I didn't need a website profile to showcase abilities for a life I no longer want to pursue.

Linkedin also provides a feature where you can write articles. I was on a writing kick for serenadewind.com so I decided why not write a [short blurb on my retirement](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/summiting-30-year-climb-up-corporate-ladder-denise-niculescu/). It was then that an article was going around Linkedin that drew my attention.

David Brook's 5 minute TED Talks video [Should you live for your resume...or your eulogy?](https://www.ted.com/talks/david_brooks_should_you_live_for_your_resume_or_your_eulogy?language=en) The timing of this was uncanny. If you have 5 minutes to spare, it is well worth seeing. In this video, Mr. Brooks refers to a book written in 1965 by Joseph Soloveitchik called "[The Lonely Man of Faith](https://www.amazon.com/Lonely-Man-Faith-Joseph-Soloveitchik/dp/0385514085)."

{% include responsive-embed url="https://www.youtube.com/embed/MlLWTeApqIM" ratio="16:9" %}

# Taking stock of life

This personal exercise came in handy for me to give some guidance to my mom who seems to have come untethered in recent months. I elaborated on this in a [few blog posts](https://www.patreon.com/join/3892078/signup?ru=%2Fjoin%2F3892078%2Fcheckout%3Frid%3D4544142%26) and suffice it to say she is still in the midst of figuring this stuff out. I must admit that it is probably a harder thing to do after having a lifetime of habits and beliefs that spans 70+ years as opposed to 40+ years.

Andrew and I married and moved in together a couple months before my father passed away. I wanted to live closer to my mom in the event that she needed any help. Within the first 6 months after the funeral, she completed the following:

-   sold a rental property,
-   bought a 2-bedroom condo with the proceeds,
-   downsized from a 4 bedroom, 3-car garage house,
-   did renovations on the 2-bedroom condo,
-   moved in, and
-   found a tenant to lease out her old place

So while Andrew and I lived close by, my mom didn't really lean on us. Ironically, she is doing so now.

Why, after 5 years, is this happening?

{% assign pwimg="clouds-daylight-fog-foggy" %}
{% assign pwcaption="" %}
{% assign pwpng="" %}
{% include post-wide-image.html%}

# Second Mountain

Thankfully I had done my own work sorting out what I was planning to do with the rest of my life. I had a little head start in helping her redirect and not fall apart. I keep reminding her who she is and that what she is experiencing now is momentary. It is not permanent.

She asks me for quick fixes. She prays incessantly, but has little faith. I take her through the various stages I went through and chronicled here on serenadewind, such as:

-   How do you define your [relationship with money](/posts/relationship-with-money/)?
-   [Focusing on the present](/posts/past-present-and-future/)
-   [The key to finding happiness](/posts/throw-back/)
-   [Going with the flow](/posts/going-with-the-flow/)
-   [Evaluating your relationships](/posts/selectively-social/) and how much energy you give away
-   Strategies to deal with stress like [writing things down in a journal](/posts/eye-of-the-storm/)
-   Even [ways to deal with social distancing](/posts/set-your-waypoint/) during this pandemic

While many of you may have gone through this with your parents, this is new to me ... this feeling of the student becoming the teacher. I am showing her the way to figure out what is her second mountain and how to live for her eulogy.

In the words of Reinhold Niebuhr:

> Nothing that is worth doing can be achieved in our lifetime; therefore we must be saved by **hope**.
> 
> Nothing which is true or beautiful or good makes complete sense in any immediate context of history; therefore we must be saved by **faith**.
> 
> Nothing we do, however virtuous, can be accomplished alone; therefore we must be saved by **love**.
> 
> No virtuous act is quite as virtuous from the standpoint of our friend or foe as it is from our standpoint. Therefore we must be saved by the final form of love, which is **forgiveness**.
> 