---
id: 116
title: Sleepless to Seattle
date: 2020-08-27T12:03:12+00:00
guid: https://www.serenadewind.com/posts/seattle/
permalink: /posts/seattle/
author: sw
layout: post
categories:
    - Relationships
tags:
    - powerofwhy
    - lifereset
    - transitions
    - shelterathome
    - gowiththeflow
share: true
image:
    thumbnail: /images/small/dhn-family-laughter.jpg 
excerpt: After a few months of planning and negotations, we finally have a chance to see our girls following a long roadtrip we are calling "Sleepless to Seattle".
---
{% include toc %}

{% assign pwimg="dhn-family-laughter" %}
{% assign pwcaption="" %}
{% assign pwpng="" %}
{% include post-wide-image.html%}

# Planning

[In the Arena](/posts/in-the-arena/), we talked about our pre-adventure adventure over the past few months. Saying goodbye to your current life can take an emotional toll. In time, we got over the sentimental items and physical possessions we needed to let go of. However, when it comes to relationships, the impact on everyone is still playing out. 

As we mentioned in [Exit Stage Left](https://www.patreon.com/posts/38860268/), we had a family discussion. This was conducted via Facetime since our girls live with their mom in Washington state. Over the July 4th weekend, we told Emma (10) and Silvia (7) about the decision to move away and live aboard a sailboat. A few weeks later, we had a plan in place to visit them. 

{% assign pwimg="seattle-tesla-map" %}
{% assign pwcaption="" %}
{% assign pwpng="" %}
{% include post-wide-image.html%}

# Roadtrip

We decided to make the most of this roadtrip adventure. We are packing up our car with boxes of books, toys, sentimental items, car seats and anything else we can think of that the girls would need or [love to have](/posts/matching-gifts/). 

In our zero emissions car, we have mapped out all of the stops that would be required to recharge along the way. This adds 4 hours to the trip while at the same time saves $161 in fuel charges.

{% assign pwimg="seattle-roadtrip-weather-day-1" %}
{% assign pwcaption="Day 1 Weather" %}
{% assign pwpng="true" %}
{% include post-wide-image.html%}

I borrowed the format from [Sailing is Truth](https://sailingistruth.com/) on a recent passage briefing written up by [Maik Ulmschneider](https://www.facebook.com/maik.ulmschneider). Here is what we have planned so far. 

## Passage Briefing 

Synopsis: These will be hot days driving on the freeway. The major challenge will be to keep Denise from overheating.

 - Port of Departure: Anaheim, Orange County, CA, USA
 - Port of Call: Mill Creek, Snohomish County, WA, USA
 - Distance: 1,190 miles

 - Duration: 23 hrs
 - ETD: Friday, August 21, 2020 07:00 UTC-7
 - ETA: Saturday, August 22, 2020 18:00 UTC-7

Weather: Based on the [7-day forecast](https://morecast.com/en/plan-your-route) for California, we expect the following conditions:
 - Sea State: N/A
 - Temperatures: H 38째C (101째F) L 16째C (61째F)
 - Tides: N/A
 - Warnings: No storm warnings in effect. 

{% assign pwimg="seattle-roadtrip-fire" %}
{% assign pwcaption="Active Wildfire Incidents" %}
{% assign pwpng="true" %}
{% include post-wide-image.html%}

Hazards:
 - Watch for slow moving traffic during commute hours in/out of city centers
 - Numerous construction zones along the entire route
 - Watch for slow moving traffic and 40 mph construction speed limit
 - Check for alternative charging stations; delays due to capacity
 - High wind advisory in mountain passages 
 - Traffic reduced to 2 lanes due to [brush fire](https://www.fire.ca.gov/incidents/) along route

{% assign pwimg="seattle-tesla-stations" %}
{% assign pwcaption="" %}
{% assign pwpng="" %}
{% include post-wide-image.html%}

## Watch System 

This is also a great opportunity to experience a watch system over a 24-hour period and help us with passage-making preparations at sea. The original plan was to split up the watches as follows:

 - Watch 1: 14:00-20:00 Denise 
 - Watch 2: 20:00-02:00 Andrew
 - Watch 3: 02:00-08:00 Denise
 - Watch 4: 08:00-13:00 Andrew 

Historically, Andrew is a night owl and I'm an early bird. Luckily, with my erratic sleep-cycle, I don't have to do much adjustment from my usual routine to handle the second half of a night watch. I'll take the 2-8 a.m. watch until Andrew wakes up, assuming he is able to fall asleep in the car. 

{% assign pwimg="seattle-roadtrip-weather-day-2" %}
{% assign pwcaption="Day 2 Weather" %}
{% assign pwpng="true" %}
{% include post-wide-image.html%}

Now that we won't be transporting Xiaolong to Seattle, we can go at a leisurely pace. The new watch system will be:

 - Watch 1: 07:00-13:00 Denise (Gustine, CA)
 - Watch 2: 13:00-19:00 Andrew (Mt Shasta, CA)
 - Watch 3: 07:00-13:00 Denise (Springfield, OR)
 - Watch 4: 13:00-18:00 Andrew (Mill Creek, WA)

This also has an added benefit of speeding through Oregon and Washington during a pleasant day, with highs in the mid-70's. 

{% assign pwimg="pexels-serenade-wind-sandwich-4871743" %}
{% assign pwcaption="" %}
{% assign pwpng="" %}
{% include post-wide-image.html%}

## Provisioning 

We also take this one-step further and provision with sandwiches, snacks and beverages rather than helping ourselves to fast-food options along the way. In fact, I loaded up some pantry items such as ingredients to make [chocolate mochi](/posts/happy-birthday/) so I can bake a fresh batch when we arrive in Seattle along with the girls' favorite musubi. 

Regardless, we will need to make our scheduled stops to top off our batteries for the journey.

# The O'Kelly's

In one of their recent podcasts, Nick and Megan O'Kelly mentioned they would be heading to Seattle. On a lark, I wrote to them to see if a meet-up would be possible. A couple days later, Nick organized a meet-up for Sunday in Golden Gardens Park. 

write a description of the meet-up

In addition to meeting up with the O'Kelly's, Andrew and I decided it would be fun to take the girls to the marina and check out some monohulls. Our hope was to give them a sense of the size of RJ Slocum. They have only experienced Catalina 22's and had a hard time believing that anyone would be able to live on a sailboat. 

So we booked some appointments with some yacht brokers and made an afternoon of looking at yachts.

write a description of the girls' feedback

{% assign pwimg="seashore-under-white-and-blue-sky-during-sunset" %}
{% assign pwcaption="" %}
{% assign pwpng="" %}
{% include post-wide-image.html%}

# Reflections

I suppose its odd to look for a silver-lining during the coronavirus pandemic. We seem to have found them everwhere, as we have taken this time to prepare for a voyaging life. This included:

-   [provisioning](/posts/free-will-or-fate/) by walking to the grocery store instead of driving
-   learning to be more [self-sufficient](/posts/set-your-waypoint/) by making repairs with whatever we have on hand rather than buying a replacement
-   assessing [how much water](/posts/water-water-everywhere/) we'll consume while showering
-   [upcycling](/posts/upcycle-r-us/) whenever we can
-   reducing our waste by [going green](/posts/going-green/)
-   increasing awareness of how we impact the world by becoming [ethical sailors](/posts/ethical-sailing/)
-   having culinary adventures by experimenting with [all-pantry recipes](/posts/canned-food-recipes/)
-   and finally the newest addition, practicing a [watch system](/posts/seattle/) while on passage

